# Photon Color Clock

This is an abstract time-telling program based on the history of timekeeping:https://editor.p5js.org/sScottyHeyns/present/YP1FUcUIp

  Today, a second is defined by the half-life of an isotope of Cesium which decays at a predictable rate. In the era of Albert Einstein, the age of science that redefined physics as we knew it, we measured the second by the most famous universal constant: the speed of light. A second used to be defined as how long it takes a photon to travel three hundred million meters. 

  What I have programmed here in p5js calls the imagery of that old definition. Here three "photons" travel between two detectors, causing a color shift in the top with every two cycles. The time is shown along the top with each digit represented as a color. The explanation of the colors is given along the center of the screen: the one furthest left represents zero while the one furthest right represents nine.

  The clock keeps time accurately enough, but there remain a few problems with the code that I've been unable to work out. First of all, the second and minute clock increment at different positions despite being scaled versions of each other. You'll notice that the minute photon increments the minute upon contacting the bottom bar while the second photon increments upon reaching the top bar. We were also forced to use the millis() function in order to provide a function that draws smoothly, but this is not strictly tied to the passage of real life seconds. By introducing the phase variants in the sine and cosine equations I can keep the minute and hour photons on track, but since the redraw() function can't be called inside the draw() function the second photon tends to be at the mercy of the accuracy of the millisecond counter. The funniest quirk is that the cosine and sine approximations calculated by the computer cause the photons to bounce slightly against the bottom.
